We're going to start at the beginning,
what is Unity?
Right, well Unity is a couple of things,
there's a couple of different
answers I could give to that.
But really the primary answer I would
say is that Unity is a game engine.
Now that's a little bit of a misnomer
because there's a lot of things that you
can do with Unity.
And really, any kind of software that
you want to create that needs 2D or
3D interactivity, where you're
actually building this world with
things inside of it like 3D meshes,
you can use Unity for.
So, of course, like I said, the primary
application of Unity is creating games.
So games like Subnautica, Cuphead,
Fall Guys, Monument Valley,
they were all created in Unity.
And I think a lot of people
are surprised to learn how many of their
favorite games are made in Unity.
It's absolutely used for
AAA games and all of my favorites.
So, of course, Unity can be used for
creating games, but
there's so
many additional applications and
Unity is finding its way into
a lot of really surprising places.
It can be used for
AR and VR product demos.
So I've done a little bit of that.
So for example,
if you're maybe buying furniture online or
you're customizing sneakers and you want
to use AR to actually see these things,
that's a great application of Unity.
You can use Unity to preview
these things in real time.
It's being used in film and animation.
So, real time production
is making its way into
a lot of Hollywood productions
because it's just faster.
It's faster to render things in real
time than wait on a render farm to
ray trace all of these things and
get a result the next day and
then have to make notes and so forth.
It's kind of closing that loop and
just making things go way faster.
It's used in automotives,
so a car dashboard or
something like that, all of that
stuff is getting digitized now.
And Unity is great at presenting UI and
it's a great spot for it.
And yeah, it's used in manufacturing,
architectural visualization where you can
potentially preview a building in VR and
see the scale of everything
before it's built.
And it's used in a lot of simulation and
training applications.
So if there's potentially
dangerous situation or
something like that that you want
to train for in a safe environment.
Again VR and
Unity is a great way to do that.
So Unity is used all over the place,
it's not just games.
And there's really a very broad market for
this and
it's finding its way into all
sorts of different verticals.
So you may have Unity already installed.
I have Unity already installed as well.
But we are just going to step through the
installation process a little bit just so
you can get more familiar with it.
Because I think you'll find
when you're working with Unity,
the version that you're using
tends to be pretty important.
So when you install Unity,
it will actually install a piece of
software called the Unity Hub and
the Unity Hub has several
different tabs on the left side.
There's Projects, Installs,
Learn, and Community.
I have the Installs tab selected in this
screenshot, and that just shows you all of
the different versions of Unity that
you can have installed at one time.
And different versions of
Unity have different features,
they have different streams of releases.
So there's the LTS stream,
which is long term support.
That's best if you are trying
to build a project and
you just need maximum stability.
And that's a great place to
start if you're a beginner.
There's also the Tech Stream releases
where they do release more cutting
edge tech and have more regular updates,
but they don't promise the same stability.
So having multiple installs while you're
working with different features or
working on different
projects is very helpful.
And when you are working on a project,
it's great to kind of lock the version and
basically synchronize your watches or
synchronize your versions with
other collaborators on the project.
There's also the Projects window, and
that just lists out what projects you
have on your system and their version.
There's the Learn tab where, as the name
implies, you can learn more about Unity.
Unity the company has a lot
of great resources for
learning how to use the engine.
And then there's the Community tab,
which is also great because
you can interact with people on forums and
get answers.
And that's really one of the great
things about Unity is their
community that you can leverage.
So we are going to kind of follow
these instructions a little bit.
This is how you would install Unity if
you don't have it installed already.
You can go to unity.com,
download the Unity Hub.
There's several different editions, so
the Personal edition should be fine.
But if you are using this for
a business purpose,
you should pay attention to
the licensing agreements.
And then you can follow the setup
instructions for the Hub,
install the latest
Long Term Support version.
And then when installing Unity from the
Hub, it will give the option to install
different modules with it, and you want to
make sure that you include WebGL support.
And if you've already installed Unity and
you didn't do that,
it's really easy to go to your
installs and add WebGL support.
So let's pop out of slides here and
just go to the Hub really quick and
I'll show you some of that.
So I have two projects here
in my projects window.
The one we're going to start with, which
I'll show you how to get in a little bit.
And then the complete
version of the project,
which is the finished build
that I just showed you.
I have lots of installs of Unity, this
can fill up your hard drive very quickly.
So be cognizant of kinda how
many versions you're installing.
The version we're going
to use today is 2021.3.0
F1 which at this time is
the current LTS version of Unity.
And like I said,
if you didn't install WebGL support,
you can go to the installs tab and
where you have that version installed,
you can click this gear icon and
choose add modules.
And then it will bring up all of the
different modules that you can add, and
most of these are for
adding build support.
So if I were making a game for iOS or
tvOS, I could add support for those here.
There are several different
ways to build for devices or
platforms like Linux and Mac.
And there's also language packs.
You can install documentation
if you want that locally, and
if you actually want to use Visual Studio,
it's easy to install it
from those modules as well.
So I already have WebGL
installed on this version.
If I were to go to maybe another version
of Unity, and choose Add modules,
it should show up there.
Yeah, WebGL build support.
So you would check that and choose Install
if you didn't have it installed already.
Like I said, the Learn tab,
lots of great starter projects and
cool things to check out there.
And then the Community tab has
things like the Unity Blog,
Answers, Forums, and
all sorts of great stuff, so
I highly recommend you
explore that on your own.
So I'm gonna jump back
into my slides here.
And once you have Unity installed,
once you have the Hub and
the version of Unity that you're going to
use, you have to create a new project.
So I have a project that I'm going
to have you grab from GitHub today.
And we're going to just open
that as our starter project.
But if you were creating a new project,
you would go to the Create Project or
new sorry, New Project button
in the upper right of the Hub.
This process does change
pretty frequently.
So this is how it works right now, but
these instructions may not
necessarily always apply.
The Hub does get frequent updates.
And then after you choose New Project,
you would choose one of the templates.
So I would say in this case for this
WebGL project, you would choose 3D Core.
And then you name your project and
choose a location.
So let's just jump over to the Hub, and
I can show you a little bit
of what that looks like.
You could click New project
in the upper right and
then there's several
different project templates.
So here's the 3D Core.
And this is just an empty 3D project,
and it uses Unity's built in renderer.
There are several different
renderers that you can use that you
can install from Unity's Package Manager,
which we'll talk about.
But this is a good one to just get started
with, especially if you're a beginner.
And then you would name your project and
choose a location,
you would Create project and
then it would open up in Unity.
So we're not gonna to do that,
I'll hit cancel here.
We're actually going to
use a starter project.
So this starter project is available at
github.com/nickpettit/unity-for-web-devel-
opers, with dashes.
And in the Unity Hub's Projects tab,
after you pull it,
we'll hit Open and
then we'll navigate to the Start
project directory and
open that up in Unity.
In this repo we have a start project and
this is what we'll actually be opening
up in Unity, the start project.
There's the complete
version of the project,
which has all of the scripts and
also potentially answers to exercises.
So no cheating, don't look there.
And then there's a Resources folder
which just has the slides that
you're looking at in this workshop.